---
post: layout
title: We win, THANK YOU, Jackson County voters
tags: lead
published: true
---

In the end, it was a rout. 

Jackson County voters saw through the fog, the mist and the smoke of the proponents' $2 million campaign and sent it crashing to defeat.

I said all along that the proposed half-cent sales tax for translational medical research was the worst tax proposal I had seen in my 44 years in Kansas City. Fittingly, it was the worst defeat I have seen for any issue during that same period.

By the time the votes had been counted, it was an 84 percent to 16 percent margin.

Stunning. Amazing. Almost incomprehensible.

And yet, fitting. 

The members of the **Civic Council of Greater Kansas City**, which brought us this monstrosity, need to go back to what they do best -- running their businesses.

Leave the politics to government. If you like an issue, support it. If you don't, oppose it. Just don't propose anything; let the governments make the proposals.

As for local governments, we voters sent a clear message that we will carefully analyze any new tax proposals that the Kansas City Council and the Jackson County Legislature decide to put on the ballot.

Those governments, especially county legislature, need to be more careful in the future regarding what kinds of measures the put before voters.

It's not good enough to put up a stinking, awful proposal, like Question 1, and say, "Let the voters decide." No, city and county elective bodies need to carefully consider if a proposal is _worthy_ of being put to a public vote. Does it make sense? Will it benefit the vast majority of residents? Is it worth the cost?  

We dont' want to see any more spurious issues on ballots that hit the taxpayers up for $1 million just to conduct an election. Future proposals need to be serious and worthwhile. 
