---
post: layout
title: We win: THANK YOU, Jackson County voters
tags: lead
published: true
---

In the end, it was a rout. 

Jackson County voters saw through the fog, the mist and the smoke of the proponents' $2 million campaign and sent it crashing to defeat.

I said all along that the proposed half-cent sales tax for translational medical research was the worst tax proposal I had seen in my 44 years in Kansas City. Fittingly, it was the worst defeat I have seen for any issue during that same period.

By the time the votes had been counted, it was an 84 percent to 16 percent margin.

Stunning. Amazing. Almost incomprehensible.

And yet, fitting. 

The members of the **Civic Council of Greater Kansas City**, which brought us this monstrosity, need to go back to what they do best -- running their businesses.

Leave the politics to government. If you like an issue, support it. If you don't, oppose it. Just don't propose anything; let the governments make the proposals.

**

As you know, I've tracked the opposing letters to the editor of The Star since August.

Susan Herold of Kansas got the last word, with her letter in today's (Saturday, Nov. 9) paper.

It reads in part:

_Too many taxpayers throughout the country -- not just Jackson County -- are barely getting by. Additional sales taxes...would only make purchasing basic necessities more expensive for the people who can least afford to pay for them...At a time when taxpayers are being squeezed to support the activities of corporations...I find it appalling that anyone with any sense of social and economic justice would even suggest a sales tax as the propoer support for private enterprise._

We're at the dawn of a new era, fellow Jackson County residents: We sent a clear message that we will carefully analyze any new tax proposals that the Kansas City Council and the Jackson County Legislature decide to put on the ballot. They -- especially the county legislature -- need to be more careful in the future regarding what kinds of measures the put before voters.

It's not good enough to put up a stinking, bad proposal and say, "Let the voters decide." No, city and county elective bodies need to carefully consider if a proposal is worthy of being put to a public vote.

Just passing an issue on to the voters is too often a waste of the public's time and money. 

