---
published: true
layout: post
tags: null
---

As you know, a lot of space has been dedicated here to the fact that the proposed half-cent sales tax for “translational medical research” is the pet project of Kansas City’s civic leadership.

Why the Civic Council of Greater Kansas City homed in on medical research I don't understand. Maybe it's altruism, but if that's the case, it's misplaced, in my opinion.

Anyway, here we are – we, the average citizens – having to put up a hell of a fight, trying to beat back this silly proposal.

And this will be an uphill battle because the proponents have now raised about $1.4 million to spend on promoting their cause. They said at the outset they would raise $1 million, and they have surely surpassed that.  

The latest Civic Council contribution to its **Committee for Research Treatments and Cures** was $400,000 on Oct.1. That brought the civic organization's total monetary contributions to an eye-popping $600,000,as of Saturday Oct.12.  

_You can fool a lot of people with experienced political consultants, slick brochures, finely tuned TV ads and $1.4 million to pay the tab._

The fear here is that those who are fooled will go to the polls and vote "yes," along with many employees from the three main organizations that would benefit from the tax: **Children’s Mercy Hospital**, **St. Luke’s Health System** and **UMKC**.

Children’s Mercy would get about $20 million a year, while St. Luke’s and UMKC would get about $8 million a year. The tax would start with a 20-year time frame. 

But back to the big bucks the proponents are shelling out to try to saddle the taxpayers with this boondoggle.

We don’t know yet how much money the treatments and cures committee has raised because the first full reports to be filed with the Missouri Ethics Commission are not due until Oct. 15. (Those reports will cover contributions and expenses through Sept.30.)

We know it’s about $1.4 million, however, because campaign committees must file notice of contributions of $5,000 or more within 48 hours of receipt. (Thank God for that provision in the law.)

So, then, here’s the list of major contributors as of Saturday, Oct.12: 

-  **The Civic Council of Greater Kansas City**, $600,00;
-  **Children’s Mercy Hospital**, $100,000;
-  **Donald Hall Jr.**, $100,000;
-  **Hallmark Global Services**, $100,000;
-  **J.E. Dunn Construction**, $100,000;
-  **John G. Sherman**, chairman and c.e.o of Inergy L.P., $100,000;
-  **Robert Kipp**, former Crown Center Development president, $50,000;
-  **Burns and McDonnell**, engineering company, $50,000;
-  **KCP&L**, $25,000;
-  **Tom McDonnell**, retired DST c.e.o., $25,000;
-  **Irvine O. Hockaday Jr**., former Hallmark Cards c.e.o., $20,000;
-  **Randall O'Donnell, Children's Mercy CEO**, $15,000 
-  **William Gautreaux**, a top Inergy LP officer (see John Sherman), $10,000;
-  **Wagstaff & Cartmell** law firm, $10,000;
-  **St. Luke’s Foundation**, $10,000;
-  **St. Luke’s Health System**, $20,000;
-  **Husch Blackwell** law firm, $10,000;
-  **Dr. L. Patrick James**, of the KC Area Life Sciences Institute, $10,000;
-  **The Polsinelli** law firm, $10,000;
-  **Lockton Companies**, $10,000;
-  **Stinson Morrison Hecker** law firm, $7,500;

Why are these people, companies and law firms putting up all this money?

For each, it’s one of two things:

They stand to get a lot more out of it than they put in, with construction, engineering, legal and insurance contracts, etc.

Or, in the case of the Halls and some others, they want it to pass so they don’t have to raise hundreds of millions of dollars privately to make their proposed **“Translational Medicine Institute of Kansas City”** become a reality.

And that is exactly where the money for this extravagant and risky program should be coming from – corporations, foundations and wealthy individuals. 

Don’t let ‘em fool you, voters. Let's beat back this onslaught of big money.
